For sure you were formed out of earth, conceived in guilt, born to punishment.
What you do is depraved and illicit.
What you do is shameful and improper.
What you do is vain and unprofitable.
You will become fuel for the eternal fires.
You will become food for worms.
You will become a mass of rottenness.
You were formed of dust, slime, and ashes.
You were formed of the filthiest seed.
You were conceived from the itch of the flesh.
You were conceived in the heat of passion and the stench of lust.
You were conceived with the stain of sin.
You were born to toil, dread, and trouble.
You were born only to die.
You commit depraved acts by which you offend God, your neighbor, and yourself.
You commit shameful acts by which you defile your name, your person, and your conscience.
You commit vain acts by which you ignore all things important, useful, and necessary.
You will become fuel for those fires which are forever hot and burn forever bright.
You will become food for the worm which forever nibbles and digests.
You will become a mass of rottenness which will forever stink and reek.
A bird is born to fly; you are born to toil.
All your days are full of toil and hardship
At night your mind has no rest.
You suffer all kinds of cares.
You are burdened with worry.
You tremble and shrink with fears and terrors.
You are weighted down with sorrow.
Your nervousness makes you depressed, and your depression makes you nervous.
Rich or poor — all suffer worldly torments and are tormented by worldly vexations.
Master or slave — all suffer worldly torments and are tormented by worldly vexations.
Married or single — all suffer worldly torments and are tormented by worldly vexations.
Good and bad alike — all suffer worldly torments and are tormented by worldly vexations.
Sudden sorrow always follows worldly joy.
What begins in gaiety ends in grief.
Worldly happiness is besprinkled indeed with much bitterness.
When least expected, misfortune strikes, a calamity befalls us
When least expected disease attacks; or death, which no one can escape, carries us off.
You strive especially for three things: riches, pleasures, and honors.
Riches lead to immorality, pleasures to shame, and honors to vanity.
Upon success, your cares grow heavy, your worries mount up, you eats less and cannot sleep.
Upon success, your nature is corrupted, your spirit weakened, your sleep disturbed, your appetite lost; strength is diminished, you lose weight.
Exhausting yourself, you scarcely live half a lifetime and end your wretched days with a more wretched death.
Almost your the whole life is full of mortal sin.
One can scarcely find anyone who does not go astray, does not return to his own vomit and rot in his own dung.
You are glad when you have done evil and rejoice in most wicked things.
You are filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, and wickedness.
You are full of envy.
You are full of murder.
You are filled with contention, deceit, and evil.
You are a whisperer and a detractor.
You are hateful to God.
You are irreverent, proud, and haughty.
You are a plotter of evil.
You are disobedient to your parents.
You are foolish and dissolute.
You are without affection and without fidelity.
You are without mercy.
This world abounds in heretics and schismatics, traitors and tyrants, simonists and hypocrites;
This world abounds in the ambitious and the covetous, robbers and brigands, violent men, extorcionists, usurers, and forgers.
This world abounds in the impious and sacreligious, the betrayers and liars, the flatterers and deceivers.
This world abounds in gossips, tricksters, gluttons, and drunkards
This world abounds in adulterers, incestuous men, deviates, and the dirty-minded.
This world abounds in the lazy, the careless, the vain, the prodigal, the impetuous, the irascible, the impatient and inconstant.
This world abounds in poisoners, fortune tellers, perjurers, and cursers.
This world abounds in men who are presumptuous and arrogant, unbelieving and desperate.
This world abounds in those ensnared in all vices together.